FF132 fetchpriority docs updates (#36142)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/htmlimageelement/fetchpriority/index.md

browser-compat: api.HTMLImageElement.fetchPriority
---

{{APIRef("HTML DOM")}}

> The **`fetchPriority`** property of the {{domxref("HTMLImageElement")}} interface represents a hint to the browser indicating how it should prioritize fetching the image relative to other images with the same internal priority.

Author: > It still feels a bit off on the language because, at least in Chrome, it is an input that is taken into consideration when creating the internal priority so it doesn't directly compare against other internal priorities but that doesn't feel like a developer-facing distinction and as-written should have the same net result.

Thanks @pmeenan . Would this address your concern (If not we can leave as is).

```suggestion
The **`fetchPriority`** property of the {{domxref("HTMLImageElement")}} interface represents a hint to the browser indicating how it should prioritize fetching a particular image relative to other images.
```

I don't _think_ we need to talk about "internal priority" here and draw the implication that we're directly comparing internal priorities.

In the following paragraph we do talk about internal priorities but here the inference is that is taken into consideration, as done by chrome.

> The property allows a developer to signal that fetching a particular image early in the loading process has more or less impact on user experience than a browser can reasonably infer when assigning an internal priority.

Reviewer: Thanks. That feels better and LGTM.

> It reflects the [`fetchpriority`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/img#fetchpriority) attribute of the corresponding {{htmlelement("img")}} element, for the allowed values.

Reviewer 2: SAme comment on the link and script pages, too.

> It reflects the [`fetchpriority`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/img#fetchpriority) attribute of the corresponding {{htmlelement("img")}} element, for the allowed values.

Author: @chrisdavidmills Yes, it means exactly that. The set of allowed values are listed in the value section. There is both a default value (`auto`) and an invalid default value (`auto`) that are used if no value is specified or an invalid value is specified, respectively.

This is notable because obviously in some cases invalid values propagate as `null` or the empty string, and presumably can be something else.

I'll try capture this in some other way.

The property allows a developer to signal that fetching a particular image early in the loading process has more or less impact on user experience than a browser can reasonably infer when assigning an internal priority.
This in turn allows the browser to increase or decrease the priority, and potentially load the image earlier or later than it would otherwise.

> The property should be used sparingly, as excessive or incorrect prioritization can degrade performance.

Reviewer 2: This all makes sense, but it feels to me like the page needs a short paragraph to describe some actual usage cases of the property (same for the link and script versions). And how does it work alongside other loading performance-related features such as preload and lazy load.

I appreciate this is discussed in great depth in the linked web.dev article, but it feels like this page could benefit with a little bit of usage description.

Author: @chrisdavidmills I have attempted to this in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/36142/commits/7d66521c7c3f29c936779674670de1abcc25e45b . For the elements I have just cross linked to the respective API properties for more information.

Note that I am not super happy with this - but I have "provided a flavour". Developers really won't know how much impact things will have until they do some testing.

Reviewer 2: Your additions largely make sense, and are exactly what I was hoping for — good job! Just a couple more small comments.

Note that both the internal priority of any fetch operation, and the impact of `fetchPriority` on the priority, are entirely browser dependent.

## Value

A string representing the priority hint.
Possible values are:

- `high`
  - : Fetch the image at a high priority relative to other images with the same internal prioritization.
- `low`
  - : Fetch the image at a low priority relative to other images with the same internal prioritization.
- `auto`

>   - : No user preference for the fetch priority.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - : Don't set a user preference for the fetch priority.
```

Feels like this needed to be changed to make it more of a complete sentence, and more in keeping with the instructive style of the other definitions. Same for the link and script pages too.

Author: I'm a little ambivalent, but changed everywhere.

{{APIRef}}

The **`fetchPriority`** property of the
{{domxref("HTMLImageElement")}} interface represents a hint given to the browser on how

> it should prioritize the fetch of the image relative to other images.

Author: @fred-wang I've made some changes to this doc as part of the fetchpriority work in FF132.

The [web.dev article](https://web.dev/articles/fetch-priority?hl=en#browser_priority_and_fetchpriority) indicates that the priority hint incrementally increases or decreases the priority of a fetch relative to other images of the same default priority, and goes into great detail about the default priorities for different contexts.

The spec just says, using the example of `high`:

> Signals a high-priority [fetch](https://fetch.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-fetch) relative to other resources with the same [destination](https://fetch.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-request-destination).

So it occurs to me that I may just have documented the "Chrome way" of doing things, and all we know about this is that  `high` will increase priority, and `low` will decrease priority? 

My guess is that probably FF does something similar to Chrome here - images in the viewport get downloaded ahead of things below the fold, but that we can't say that directly. 

Can you clarify? Is the effect of high and low completely browser dependent?

Reviewer 3: So the fetch spec only says this https://fetch.spec.whatwg.org/#fetching

> If request’s internal priority is null, then use request’s priority, initiator, destination, and render-blocking in an implementation-defined manner to set request’s internal priority to an implementation-defined object.

as well as these hints:

> The implementation-defined object could encompass stream weight and dependency for HTTP/2, priorities used in Extensible Prioritization Scheme for HTTP for transports where it applies (including HTTP/3), and equivalent information used to prioritize dispatch and processing of HTTP/1 fetches. [RFC9218]

So fetchpriority affects the internal priority, but it's entirely up to to the browser:

- to define what the internal priority is and how it is affected by fetchpriority
- to decide how this internal priority is taken into account for HTTP requests

Firefox's behavior is currently quite different from Chrome, so I would not give details, or otherwise explain clearly these are examples of behavior by Chrome (or any other browser).

Unfortunately, Firefox's behavior is currently not well documented, the best we have for now was given on 1854077:

https://notes.igalia.com/s/dGX-j1_7O#
https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/networking/http/prioritization.html

In Firefox, the internal priority is used for the urgency from "Extensible Prioritization Scheme for HTTP" (HTTP/2 and HTTP/3) here: https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/rev/1b90936792b2c71ef931cb1b8d6baff9d825592e/netwerk/protocol/http/nsHttpHandler.cpp#821

Author: Thanks @fred-wang - that is very helpful. Updated to just mention that the internal priority and how it is affected is entirely browser dependent, and that this is a hint to the browser as to effect of a particular image on user experience.

I haven't gone into detail or talked about how you should test on different browsers, because if we can't be detailed IMO it _does not matter_. If you think that a particular image is more relevant and perhaps the browser won't work that out you can use this, and the browser will either successfully use it or not - but there isn't anything else you _should_ do anyway :-).

Reviewer 3: Thanks, I think not going into details is the right thing to do (until it's defined in the spec or we have better browser interop...). But IMHO, we could add a short example saying that browsers may use their internal priority to control the urgency parameter of Extensible Prioritization Scheme for HTTP, and that fetchpriority would allow to increase/decrease the default urgency for a specific kind of resource.

Author: OK, so as I understand this, you're saying that if you were to set the `defaultPriority` for a resource, this might cause the browser to set the HTTP [Priority](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Priority) header with a higher value when requesting a resource - right?

If both Chrome and Firefox do this (?), I guess I could add a note. I probably wouldn't add an example though.

Reviewer 3: Right. Firefox does that, I'm not sure for Chrome.

Reviewer: I'd probably stay away from talking about the extensible priorities specifically. Yes, Chrome translates the internal priority into urgency values but it's all still relative and that's only at the time that the image goes out over the network. 

The internal priority (and any fetchPriority hints) also influence the internal queuing on deciding when the image should go to the network relative to other resources and that is independent of extensible priorities.

I tried to keep the spec language pretty loose because it's basically a developer signal that feeds into the browser's decision logic for how to schedule and prioritize resources but that is all a black box and browser-dependent.

Author: Makes sense to me.

> - {{domxref("HTMLLinkElement.fetchPriority")}}

Author: @fred-wang For [`HTMLLinkElement.fetchPriority`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLLinkElement/fetchPriority) the docs talk only about the effect of priority for preloading. My thinking is that this works whether or not you preload - right?
